=head1 NAME

vos_loadpart - Attaches new vice partitions dynamically

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vos loadpart> S<<< B<-server> <I<machine name>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>]
    [B<-verbose>] [B<-encrypt>] [B<-noresolve>]
    S<<< [B<-config> <I<config directory>>] >>>
    [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos loadpart> command dynamically attaches new vice partitions
mounted after the initialization of the fileserver.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<server name>>

Identifies the file server machine where the new vice partitions should
be attached. Provide the machine's IP address or its host name (either
fully qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For details,
see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-encrypt>

Encrypts the command so that the operation's results are not transmitted
across the network in clear text. This option is available in OpenAFS
versions 1.4.11 or later and 1.5.60 or later.

=item B<-noresolve>

Shows all servers as IP addresses instead of the DNS name. This is very
useful when the server address is registered as 127.0.0.1 or when dealing
with multi-homed servers. This option is available in OpenAFS
versions 1.4.8 or later and 1.5.35 or later.

=item B<-config> <I<configuration directory>>

Set the location of the configuration directory to be used. This defaults to
F</usr/vice/etc>, except if B<-localauth> is specified, in which case the
default is F</usr/afs/etc>. This option allows the use of alternative
configuration locations for testing purposes.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output reports the name of each partition successfully attached.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command attaches a new partition called C<vicepf>
on a server called C<host>:

   % vos loadpart host
   vos: loaded 1 new partition(s)
       /vicepf successfully loaded

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each database server
machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_partinfo(1)>,
L<vos_listpart(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 Sine Nomine Associates.  All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the BSD License as written in the
doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Marcio Barbosa for
OpenAFS.
